docs(walrus): add eventual consistency guidance for reading blobs after upload (BEDU-254) (#3409)
MystenLabs/walrus: docs/content/troubleshooting/reading-blobs-after-upload.mdx

---
title: Reading Blobs Right After Upload

> description: Why blobs may return 404 immediately after certification, and how to handle the propagation window.

Reviewer: I think it worth calling out at the beginning that eventual consistent behavior is only when using aggregator with caching in front. Walrus itself is strongly consistent, and when using aggregator without cache, it is also strongly consistent.

Author: Thank you! I reframed the intro to call out that Walrus itself is strongly consistent and the propagation window only appears with CDN-fronted aggregators. Added a "When this applies" section that explicitly excludes self-hosted aggregators without CDN.

---

> title: Reading Blobs Right After Upload

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Reading Blobs Immediately After Upload
```

> description: Why blobs may return 404 immediately after certification when using a cached aggregator, and how to handle the propagation window.

Reviewer 2: Style guide violation

> description: Why blobs may return 404 immediately after certification when using a cached aggregator, and how to handle the propagation window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Blobs might return 404 immediately after certification when using a cached aggregator. This guide details how to handle the propagation window.
```

keywords: [walrus, troubleshooting, aggregator, CDN, 404, propagation, retry]
---

> Walrus itself is strongly consistent. Once a blob is certified, any aggregator reading directly from storage nodes returns it immediately. However, public aggregators are commonly fronted by a content delivery network (CDN), and CDNs may cache a `404 Not Found` response from a brief moment when the aggregator had not yet seen the blob. This is what causes the apparent "blob is missing right after upload" symptom.

Reviewer 2: Style guide violation

> Walrus itself is strongly consistent. Once a blob is certified, any aggregator reading directly from storage nodes returns it immediately. However, public aggregators are commonly fronted by a content delivery network (CDN), and CDNs may cache a `404 Not Found` response from a brief moment when the aggregator had not yet seen the blob. This is what causes the apparent "blob is missing right after upload" symptom.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a blob is certified, any aggregator reading directly from storage nodes returns it immediately. However, public aggregators are commonly fronted by a content delivery network (CDN), and CDNs might cache a `404 Not Found` response from a brief moment before the aggregator has seen the blob. This causes the behavior where it appears a blob is missing right after upload.
```

If your app reads blobs through a cached aggregator immediately after upload, plan for this window.

## When this applies

> This propagation window only affects you in specific conditions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This propagation window only happens under specific conditions:
```

- You are reading through a public aggregator with a CDN in front. Examples include the Mainnet and Testnet public aggregators.
- You read a blob within seconds of its certification.

It does not apply when:

- You are reading from a self-hosted aggregator with no CDN in front. Reads are strongly consistent.
- The blob does not exist at all. A `404` in that case is correct and should not be retried.

## Retry only when you know the blob should exist

> Because Walrus is strongly consistent, a `404` from an uncached aggregator means the blob genuinely is not on the network. If you blindly retry every `404`, you inflate read latency for the common case of "this blob does not exist."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because Walrus is strongly consistent, a `404` from an uncached aggregator means the blob genuinely is not on the network. If you blindly retry every `404`, you inflate read latency.
```

> Retry with backoff only when your app knows the blob has just been certified. Treat other `404` responses as terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retry with backoff only when your app knows the blob has just been certified. Treat other `404` responses as true failures.
```

## Example: retry after a known upload

> The helper below is meant for the post-upload path: your app just received a successful certification, then immediately wants to fetch the blob through a cached aggregator. It surfaces non-404 errors immediately and only retries `404`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example is designed for a post-upload path where your app just received a successful certification, then immediately wants to fetch the blob through a cached aggregator. It surfaces non-404 errors immediately and only retries `404`.
```

<ImportContent source="examples/typescript/retry_blob_with_backoff.ts" mode="code" />

> Tune `maxAttempts` and `baseDelayMs` to your latency budget. A few seconds of total retry time is usually sufficient. Do not use this pattern for general reads. For those, treat `404` as terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tune `maxAttempts` and `baseDelayMs` to your latency budget. A few seconds of total retry time is usually sufficient. Do not use this pattern for general reads.
```

> ## Cache-bust the CDN if needed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Cache-bust the CDN if needed
```

> Some CDNs may not respect cache control headers and can cache the `404` response. If retries keep hitting the cached `404`, append a cache-busting query parameter:

Reviewer 2: Style guide violation

> Some CDNs may not respect cache control headers and can cache the `404` response. If retries keep hitting the cached `404`, append a cache-busting query parameter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some CDNs might not respect cache control headers and can cache the `404` response. If retries keep hitting the cached `404`, append a cache-busting query parameter:
```

```ts
fetch(`${aggregatorUrl}/v1/blobs/${blobId}?cb=${Date.now()}`);
```

Once the blob is reliably reachable, you can drop the cache-buster.

> ## Use multiple aggregators

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Use multiple aggregators
```

If a single aggregator is slow to surface the blob, falling back to another usually resolves it. If one aggregator returns 404 but another returns the blob, the blob is on the network.

> ## Pre-warm the read path before demos

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Pre-warm the read path before demos
```

Before showing a freshly uploaded blob to an audience, retrieve it once from the aggregator you plan to use. This forces the aggregator and any CDN in front of it to populate its cache before you need it.

## Expected behavior, not a bug

The behavior described above is consistent with how Walrus aggregators and CDNs propagate newly certified blobs. Keep in mind:

- Walrus itself is strongly consistent.
- The window applies only to cached aggregator paths.

> - It is not specific to small or large blobs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: Redundant, not necessary to repeat all this since this page is relatively short, so these takeaways aren't at risk of being lost with length.

---

> title: Reading blobs right after upload

Reviewer 2: Title case needed for page titles

Author: Done. Thank you!

description: Why blobs may return 404 immediately after certification, and how to handle the propagation window.
keywords: [walrus, troubleshooting, eventual consistency, aggregator, 404, propagation, retry]
---

When a blob is certified on Walrus, it does not immediately appear at every aggregator gateway. There is a short propagation window during which some aggregators may return `404 Not Found` for a blob that has been successfully certified. This is expected behavior, not a bug.

If your app reads a blob right after upload, handle this propagation window explicitly.

## Why this happens

> 

Reviewer 2: This needs a sentence before just a list

Author: Done! Thank you!

- A blob is certified when enough storage nodes confirm storing its shards.
- Aggregator gateways read blobs from storage nodes, but each gateway maintains its own cache and connection pool to those nodes.
- Aggregators can take a few seconds to surface a newly certified blob.
- If the request hits a CDN-backed aggregator and the 404 response gets cached, the apparent unavailability can extend beyond the underlying propagation window.

## What to do

> 

Reviewer 2: Avoid stacked headings when possible

Author: Done! Thank you!

### Retry with exponential backoff

> Treat post-upload 404s as transient. Non-404 errors (such as 500) indicate a different class of problem and should not be retried blindly — the example below surfaces them immediately:

Reviewer 2: No em dashes per style guide

Author: Done, thank you!

> ```ts

Reviewer 2: code should be imported from source when possible

Author: moved to examples/typescript/retry_blob_with_backoff.ts and imported via <ImportContent>.

async function fetchBlobWithRetry(
  blobId: string,
  aggregatorUrl: string,
  opts = { maxAttempts: 6, baseDelayMs: 500 },
): Promise<ArrayBuffer> {
  let lastError: unknown;

  for (let attempt = 0; attempt < opts.maxAttempts; attempt++) {
    const res = await fetch(`${aggregatorUrl}/v1/blobs/${blobId}`, {
      cache: "no-store",
    });

    if (res.ok) return res.arrayBuffer();

    // Surface unexpected errors immediately — don't retry server errors.
    if (res.status !== 404) {
      throw new Error(`Unexpected status ${res.status} for blob ${blobId}`);
    }

    // 404: blob may not have propagated yet. Wait, then retry.
    lastError = new Error(`404 on attempt ${attempt + 1}`);
    const delay = opts.baseDelayMs * 2 ** attempt;
    await new Promise((r) => setTimeout(r, delay));
  }

  throw new Error(
    `Blob ${blobId} not available after ${opts.maxAttempts} attempts`,
  );
}
```

Tune `maxAttempts` and `baseDelayMs` to your latency budget. A few seconds of total retry time is usually sufficient.

> ### Cache-bust the CDN if needed

Reviewer 2: define acronym once before using exclusively

Author: Done!

Some aggregators sit behind a CDN that caches 404 responses. If retries keep returning a cached 404, append a cache-busting query parameter:

```ts
fetch(`${aggregatorUrl}/v1/blobs/${blobId}?cb=${Date.now()}`);
```

Note that some CDN configurations ignore unknown query parameters entirely, so this may not work for every aggregator. Once the blob is reliably reachable, drop the cache-buster.

### Use multiple aggregators

> If a single aggregator is slow to surface the blob, falling back to another usually resolves it. Walrus is a distributed read network — if one aggregator returns 404 but another returns the blob, the blob is on the network.

Reviewer 2: No em dashes

Author: Done!

### Pre-warm the read path before demos

Before showing a freshly uploaded blob to an audience, retrieve it once from the aggregator you plan to use. This forces the aggregator and any CDN in front of it to populate its cache before you need it.

## What this is not

> 

Reviewer 2: Needs sentence before list, and also could use a better title, since we don't use "What this is not" or other similar titles very often, if at all

Author: renamed to 'Expected behavior, not a bug' with intro sentence.
